README.md, before:

BiGSMAll or BacterIal Genome-Scale Metabolic models for AppLied reverse ecoLogy
============

Python scripts and workflow by Matthew Jenior, University of Michigan, 2014 - 2016

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

The function of this package is to observe putative metabolic requirements, interaction, and activity of bacteria with the intention of inferring ecological interaction

KEGG reference files and reference creation script can be found in the support directory

Examples of input files for each program can be found in the examples directory

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Index:

**Section 1:**  Generating bipartite metabolic models used in conjunction with transcriptomics

**Section 2:**  Generating SCC networks of compounds only to derive source and sink lists

**Section 3:**  Comparing source and sink compounds to infer ecological interaction

**Section 4:**  Comparing bipartite metabolic model importance values between species

**Section 5:**  Appendix describing example files for each script

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Section 1 - bipartite_graph.py
Calculates relative importance of a given metabolite based on the expression of surrounding enzymes in a metabolic network

# Basic usage:
python bipartite_graph.py ko_expression.list

# Additional Options:
*Positional, required argument:**

expression_file

**Optional arguments:**

-h, --help		show this help message and exit

--name NAME		Organism or other name for KO+expression file (default is organism)

--min MIN		minimum importance value to report

--degree DEGREE		minimum degree value to report

--iters ITERS		iterations for random distribution subsampling
  
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Section 2 - scc_graph.py
Purpose is to calculate seeds compounds to genome-scale metabolic networks according to KEGG annotation
SCC algorithm from Borenstein E. et al. (2008). Large-scale reconstruction and phylogenetic analysis of metabolic environments.

# Basic usage:
python scc_graph.py ko.list

# Additional Options:
**Positional, required argument:**

ko.list

**Optional arguments:**

-h, --help	show this help message and exit

--giant GIANT	Only focus on the largest component or not

--component COMPONENT	Minimum threshold for SCC size to be included

--confidence CONFIDENCE		Minimum confidence value allowed for seeds

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Section 3 - interact_scc.py

Calculating the interaction indices between seed files of 2 organisms
This refers to the directories of files generated by scc_graph.py
Interaction metrics from Levy R., & Borenstein E. (2013). Metabolic modeling of species 
interaction in the human microbiome elucidates community-level assembly rules.

# Basic usage:
python interact_scc.py --sccfiles1 organism_1.scc.files --sccfiles2 organism_2.scc.files

# Additional Options:
**Required arguments:**

--sccfiles1 SCCFILES1		 Directory of SCC network output for first (meta)organism

--sccfiles2 SCCFILES2		Directory of SCC network output for second (meta)organism

**Optional arguments:**

-h, --help		show this help message and exit

--name1 NAME1		Name of first (meta)organism

--name2 NAME2		Name of second (meta)organism

--confidence CONFIDENCE		Minimum confidence values for seeds and sinks to be considered in calculations

--quiet QUIET		Turns on verbose output mode

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Section 4 - interact_bipartite.py

Under construction

# Basic usage:
python interact_bipartite.py 

# Additional Options:
**Required arguments:**


**Optional arguments:**

-h, --help		show this help message and exit

--name1 NAME1		Name of first (meta)organism

--name2 NAME2		Name of second (meta)organism


---------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Section 5 - Appendix

Sample files to be used for practice with each of the respective scripts

ko_expression.list - list of KO codes and corresponding expression values for Clostridium difficile strain 630   
ko.list - list of KEGG gene codes and corresponding KO codes for the genome of Clostridium difficile strain 630   
organism_1.seedfiles and organism_2.seedfiles - Output of calc_seeds.py for Clostridium difficile 630 and Eubacterium rectale ATCC 33656   

Need to generate example files for bipartite interaction

Commit message:

adding option to calculate alternative score metrics

README.md, after:

BiGSMAll or BacterIal Genome-Scale Metabolic models for AppLied reverse ecoLogy
============

Python scripts and workflow by Matthew Jenior, University of Michigan, 2014 - 2016

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

The function of this package is to observe putative metabolic requirements, interaction, and activity of bacteria with the intention of inferring ecological interaction

KEGG reference files and reference creation script can be found in the support directory

Examples of input files for each program can be found in the examples directory

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Index:

**Section 1:**  Generating bipartite metabolic models used in conjunction with transcriptomics

**Section 2:**  Generating SCC networks of compounds only to derive source and sink lists

**Section 3:**  Comparing source and sink compounds to infer ecological interaction

**Section 4:**  Comparing bipartite metabolic model importance values between species

**Section 5:**  Appendix describing example files for each script

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Section 1 - bipartite_graph.py
Calculates relative importance of a given metabolite based on the expression of surrounding enzymes in a metabolic network

# Basic usage:
python bipartite_graph.py ko_expression.list

# Additional Options:
*Positional, required argument:**

expression_file

**Optional arguments:**

-h, --help		show this help message and exit

--name NAME		Organism or other name for KO+expression file (default is organism)

--min MIN		minimum importance value to report

--degree DEGREE		minimum degree value to report

--iters ITERS		iterations for random distribution subsampling

--type TYPE		Type of substrate score calculation to perform (1=Eigen Vector, 2=Normalization, 12=Both)
  
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Section 2 - scc_graph.py
Purpose is to calculate seeds compounds to genome-scale metabolic networks according to KEGG annotation
SCC algorithm from Borenstein E. et al. (2008). Large-scale reconstruction and phylogenetic analysis of metabolic environments.

# Basic usage:
python scc_graph.py ko.list

# Additional Options:
**Positional, required argument:**

ko.list

**Optional arguments:**

-h, --help	show this help message and exit

--giant GIANT	Only focus on the largest component or not

--component COMPONENT	Minimum threshold for SCC size to be included

--confidence CONFIDENCE		Minimum confidence value allowed for seeds

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Section 3 - interact_scc.py

Calculating the interaction indices between seed files of 2 organisms
This refers to the directories of files generated by scc_graph.py
Interaction metrics from Levy R., & Borenstein E. (2013). Metabolic modeling of species 
interaction in the human microbiome elucidates community-level assembly rules.

# Basic usage:
python interact_scc.py --sccfiles1 organism_1.scc.files --sccfiles2 organism_2.scc.files

# Additional Options:
**Required arguments:**

--sccfiles1 SCCFILES1		 Directory of SCC network output for first (meta)organism

--sccfiles2 SCCFILES2		Directory of SCC network output for second (meta)organism

**Optional arguments:**

-h, --help		show this help message and exit

--name1 NAME1		Name of first (meta)organism

--name2 NAME2		Name of second (meta)organism

--confidence CONFIDENCE		Minimum confidence values for seeds and sinks to be considered in calculations

--quiet QUIET		Turns on verbose output mode

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Section 4 - interact_bipartite.py

Under construction

# Basic usage:
python interact_bipartite.py 

# Additional Options:
**Required arguments:**


**Optional arguments:**

-h, --help		show this help message and exit

--name1 NAME1		Name of first (meta)organism

--name2 NAME2		Name of second (meta)organism


---------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Section 5 - Appendix

Sample files to be used for practice with each of the respective scripts

ko_expression.list - list of KO codes and corresponding expression values for Clostridium difficile strain 630   
ko.list - list of KEGG gene codes and corresponding KO codes for the genome of Clostridium difficile strain 630   
organism_1.seedfiles and organism_2.seedfiles - Output of calc_seeds.py for Clostridium difficile 630 and Eubacterium rectale ATCC 33656   

Need to generate example files for bipartite interaction
